my friend has a problem here with this
83 300 D turbo and we're going to try to
solve it the first thing we have to do
is find out what is really causing the
problem and then we're going to have to
repair it and as I thought through this
problem I to realize this might make a
great video workshop series on how to
diagnose a overheating and
malfunctioning turbo diesel engine and
then go through the step-by-step process
of what it's going to take to fix it
particularly is it worth fixing it and
is it something the DIY mechanic can do
himself let me explain the problem when
he picked up this car he knew there was
a problem with it because there was it
was losing coolant there was an
overheating problem and right away you
could spot something was going on with
this coolant reservoir tank look at the
coloring on that thing I mean it's a
little dirty a little rusty inside and
when he started driving this he said me
and this engine runs great but it smokes
when you start it up kind of a whitish
smoke and then it keeps overheating so I
recommended that he just pulled the
thermostat out so he went into the
thermostat housing pulled the thermostat
out and started driving the car and that
kind of solved the overheating I mean it
was still running on the high side of
temperature but he's actually been
driving this car for the last month and
he's he says this is one of the best
running turbo diesel engines he's ever
been around he's had a few of these
things it's a solid car there's no rust
in it the suspension is tight and he
wants to fix it because it may not be a
big problem it's not going to be
something simple but what I've decided
to do is do a video workshop series
which will be available later on my
website and the first thing we're going
to do is to try to determine before we
tear the engine down whether it's a
head gasket problem or possibly a
cracked head if it's head gasket problem
you know it may be something as simple
as just putting a new head gasket
bolting everything back up but I've
usually learned from these old cars that
it's never quite as simple as it may
appear and you always have to be ready
for Murphy's Law I said be prepared when
you pull that head off the engine you
may not like what you see on those
cylinder walls and it may be okay don't
go any further
but at least the commitment to take the
head off then we can you know decide
whether it's worth either replacing the
head or replacing the head gasket so
over the next few days we're going to go
through a few tests and all film those
will take pictures we'll come back and
do some videos on those testing and
diagnostic procedures one of them will
be doing a coolant pressure test let's
see if we can get a leak down and wet
and that may indicate for sure there's
something going on with either the head
or the head gasket and we're going to do
a compression test a cold cranking
compression test to see how much
variation we're getting between the
cylinders and after that we'll report
back in either part two or part three of
the video workshop and once we determine
that we think we know what the problem
is we're going to go ahead and pull his
head off you'll get a chance to see us
you know removing the head from the
engine inspecting the gases inspecting
the head and then talking about what the
options are to get it fixed I won't be
doing a step-by-step bolt by bolt
instructional manual this will be more
of a diagnostic and teardown procedure
and then looking at some of the
challenges you'll have to take on if
you're going to try to to do this
yourself so when this video workshop is
available I will post I cannot change
the video once I put it up on YouTube
this is the introductory video to this
workshop but I will change the item
description that you see below and in
the description I will give you a link
to where you can go to watch this
multi-part series there's one thing I
forgot to mention that the owner did
have to do to keep driving this car now
you won't be able to do this with all
cars
it developed this kind of a problem
because it all depends on how big the
leak is if you have a big head gasket
leak or you have a large crack in the
Sun right the high compression of a
desolation will force so much pressure
into your cooling system that's going to
start blowing the cap so you'll build up
a lot of pressure but for some reason he
was able to just come in here and drill
a very very small little hole in the top
of this coolant reservoir tank that just
allowed enough of that excess pressure
to escape without losing a lot of
coolant to allow him to keep driving the
car once again you won't be able to do
this in every situation but in part 1 of
the video workshop series I will show
you how we're going to hook up a tester
to test the pressure inside the cooling
system to see how much and how fast it
leaks down
you